README.md, before:

# CasAuthBundle
Basic CAS (SSO) authenticator for Symfony 3 and 4

This bundle provides a -very- basic CAS (http://jasig.github.io/cas/4.1.x/index.html) authentication client for Symfony 3 and 4.

## Installation

Install the library via [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) by
running the following command:

```bash
composer require prayno/casauth-bundle
```

Next, enable the bundle in your `app/AppKernel.php` file:

```php
<?php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new PRayno\CasAuthBundle\PRaynoCasAuthBundle(),
        // ...
    );
}
```

In config.yml (Symfony 3) or config/packages/p_rayno_cas_auth.yaml (create this file in Symfony 4), add these settings :
```yaml
p_rayno_cas_auth:
    server_login_url: https://mycasserver/cas/
    server_validation_url: https://mycasserver/cas/serviceValidate
    server_logout_url: https://mycasserver/cas/logout
    xml_namespace: cas
    options:[] see http://docs.guzzlephp.org/en/latest/request-options.html
```
Note : the xml_namespace and options parameters are optionals

Modify your security.yml with the following values (the provider in the following settings should not be used as it's just a very basic example ; in production, create your own UserProvider and add its service name in providers:cas:id) :
```yaml
security:
    providers:
        cas:
          id: prayno.cas_user_provider

    firewalls:
        dev:
            pattern: ^/(_(profiler|wdt)|css|images|js)/
            security: false
        main:
            anonymous: ~
            logout: ~
            guard:
                authenticators:
                    - prayno.cas_authenticator

    access_control:
        - { path: ^/, roles: ROLE_USER }
  ```
  
  And voila ! Your secured route should redirect you to your CAS login page which should authenticate you.


## CAS global logout option

If you want your users to logout from the remote CAS server when logging out from your app, you should apply the following settings :

security.yaml:

```yaml
# ...
    firewalls:
        # ...
        main:
          # ...
          logout:
            path: /logout
            success_handler: PRayno\CasAuthBundle\Event\LogoutSuccessHandler
  ```
  
services.yaml

```yaml
# ...
services:
    # ...
    PRayno\CasAuthBundle\Event\LogoutSuccessHandler:
        arguments:
            $logoutUrl: "%cas_logout_url%"
  ```
  
Of course, you must set a "cas_logout_url" parameter in your app (eg. https://my_remote_cas_server/logout)

Don't forget to define a /logout route in your app.

## CAS Single Logout

CAS servers will signal your app when a user logs out. If you want
to terminate user sessions when that occurs, add these settings:

services.yaml

```yaml
    PRayno\CasAuthBundle\Event\SingleLogoutEventSubscriber:
        tags:
            - { name: kernel.event_subscriber }

    PRayno\CasAuthBundle\Session\SessionTerminatorInterface:
        class: PRayno\CasAuthBundle\Session\FileSystemSessionTerminator
        arguments:
            $logger: '@logger'
```

Note, the provided FileSystemSessionTerminator is intended for the simple
case where sessions are stored on the filesystem. If your needs
are more complex, such as with database session storage, implement
SessionTerminatorInterface and modify the service definition above.

Commit message:

Activate PRayno\CasAuthBundle\Event\SingleLogoutEventSubscriber by configuration

README.md, after:

# CasAuthBundle
Basic CAS (SSO) authenticator for Symfony 3 and 4

This bundle provides a -very- basic CAS (http://jasig.github.io/cas/4.1.x/index.html) authentication client for Symfony 3 and 4.

## Installation

Install the library via [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) by
running the following command:

```bash
composer require prayno/casauth-bundle
```

Next, enable the bundle in your `app/AppKernel.php` file:

```php
<?php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new PRayno\CasAuthBundle\PRaynoCasAuthBundle(),
        // ...
    );
}
```

In config.yml (Symfony 3) or config/packages/p_rayno_cas_auth.yaml (create this file in Symfony 4), add these settings :
```yaml
p_rayno_cas_auth:
    server_login_url: https://mycasserver/cas/
    server_validation_url: https://mycasserver/cas/serviceValidate
    server_logout_url: https://mycasserver/cas/logout
    single_logout: false
    xml_namespace: cas
    options:[] see http://docs.guzzlephp.org/en/latest/request-options.html
```
Note : the xml_namespace and options parameters are optionals

Modify your security.yml with the following values (the provider in the following settings should not be used as it's just a very basic example ; in production, create your own UserProvider and add its service name in providers:cas:id) :
```yaml
security:
    providers:
        cas:
          id: prayno.cas_user_provider

    firewalls:
        dev:
            pattern: ^/(_(profiler|wdt)|css|images|js)/
            security: false
        main:
            anonymous: ~
            logout: ~
            guard:
                authenticators:
                    - prayno.cas_authenticator

    access_control:
        - { path: ^/, roles: ROLE_USER }
  ```
  
  And voila ! Your secured route should redirect you to your CAS login page which should authenticate you.


## CAS global logout option

If you want your users to logout from the remote CAS server when logging out from your app, you should apply the following settings :

security.yaml:

```yaml
# ...
    firewalls:
        # ...
        main:
          # ...
          logout:
            path: /logout
            success_handler: PRayno\CasAuthBundle\Event\LogoutSuccessHandler
  ```
  
services.yaml

```yaml
# ...
services:
    # ...
    PRayno\CasAuthBundle\Event\LogoutSuccessHandler:
        arguments:
            $logoutUrl: "%cas_logout_url%"
  ```
  
Of course, you must set a "cas_logout_url" parameter in your app (eg. https://my_remote_cas_server/logout)

Don't forget to define a /logout route in your app.

## CAS Single Logout

CAS servers will signal your app when a user logs out. If you want
to terminate user sessions when that occurs by adding the following
configuration.

In config.yml (Symfony 3) or config/packages/p_rayno_cas_auth.yaml:

```yaml
p_rayno_cas_auth:
    single_logout: true
```

Note, the provided single logout implementation is intended for the simple
case where sessions are stored on the filesystem. If your needs
are more complex, such as with database session storage, implement
PRayno\CasAuthBundle\Session\SessionTerminatorInterface and
[override](https://symfony.com/doc/current/service_container/service_decoration.html)
the `prayno.single_logout_session_terminator` service with your own.
